= Rack::ParamToCookie

* https://github.com/jdleesmiller/rack-param_to_cookie

== SYNOPSIS

Rack::ParamToCookie is a rack middleware that extracts request parameters from requests and stores them in cookies for use in future requests. It's useful for affiliate, referral or promotion links, which often work something like:

1. A referral partner puts a link on their site to somewhere on your site, and they include a request parameter like +ref+ so you can identify traffic from them, e.g. https://www.example.com/some-interesting-page?ref=123ABC
1. A user clicks through the link and comes to your site.
1. The Rack::ParamToCookie middleware finds the +ref+ parameter and stores it in a cookie for this user.
1. The user browses around for a while and eventually signs up.
1. Your sign up action recovers the referral code, +123ABC+, from the cookie, and you mark it as a successful referral from your partner.
1. $$$$!

== Usage

In a Rails app, you can add it as middleware in +config/application.rb+. For a parameter called +ref+, the basic usage is:

  config.middleware.use 'Rack::ParamToCookie', 'ref' => {}
  
This tells Rack::ParamToCookie to capture a request parameter called +ref+, store it in a cookie called +ref+, and make it available in your rails app as <tt>request.env['ref']</tt>. You can specify multiple parameters and configure them. Here's a more in-depth example:

  config.middleware.use 'Rack::ParamToCookie',
    'ref' => {cookie_name: 'referral_code',
              env_name: 'referral.code',
              ttl: 14*24*60*60},
    'aff' => {cookie_name: 'affiliate_code',
              env_name: 'affiliate.code'}

The first cookie, +referral_code+ for parameter +ref+, has a 14 day time to live and is accessible in <tt>request.env\['referral.code']</tt>. The second, for parameter +aff+, has the default time to live, which is 30 days.

== Installation

Add to your Gemfile

  gem 'rack-param_to_cookie'

Or install directly

  gem install rack-param_to_cookie

You can load it with

  require 'rack/param_to_cookie'

== Credits

This middleware is mostly based on Rack::Affiliates (https://github.com/alexlevin/rack-affiliates); this middleware is just a bit more generic and configurable.

== License

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2014 John Lees-Miller

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
